README.adoc, before:

= ISO 10303 STEPmod CVS import to Git

image:https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs-migration/workflows/import/badge.svg["Conversion status (main)", link="https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs-migration/actions?query=workflow%3Aimport"]


== Purpose

This repository contains a workflow that imports the ISO 10303
STEPmod CVS repository at Boost to the
https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs[iso-10303-stepmod-cvs]
Git repository.


== Details

There are two repos involved here:

* Repo with import workflow: https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs-import
* Repo to hold converted git repo: https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs

Under `.github/` you will see the `import.yml` workflow:

. The whole workflow depends on
.. https://gitlab.com/esr/reposurgeon[`reposurgeon`];
.. https://gitlab.com/esr/cvs-fast-export[`cvs-fast-export`];
. It uses `rsync` to retrieve the repo via `ssh`;
. It runs `reposurgeon` to convert the whole repository history into Git;
. We push all tags and branches to the https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs["converted" GitHub repo], using the `metanorma-ci` GitHub user.

The Boost Conseil CVS is located at `cvs.boost-lab.net`.


== Frequency

This workflow is to be run once a day to import latest changes from Boost CVS.


== Usage

=== Strategy to import

Cloning a remote CVS repository while importing is super slow,
especially for a large repository like STEPmod.

We have tested and settled on these steps:

. Maintain a local `rsync` copy of the CVS repository.

. Resolve all names from the CVS repository (CVS only stores UNIX usernames, in
Git are names and emails) with a `reposurgeon` user map.

. Run `reposurgeon` which depends on `cvs-fast-import` to import the CVS
repository into the `iso-10303-stepmod-cvs` Git repo.


=== Creating the `rsync` clone of the CVS repository

[source,sh]
----
rsync -avrPz -e ssh ronald@cvs.boost-lab.net:/stepmod/ stepmod-rsync/
----

=== Install reposurgeon

See import.yml.

=== Install cvs-fast-export

`cvs-fast-export` works on Linux and macOS.
Run it on Ubuntu with the `rsync`'ed CVS directory.

Install:
[source,sh]
----
$ apt-get -y install cvs-fast-export
----

=== Getting all users for email mapping

Find all authors in the CVS repository using `make stubmap`.

[source,sh]
----
$ cd stepmod
$ make stubmap
----

Then manually edit the `stepmod.map` file to provide author information.


=== Run reposurgeon to convert

After all authors are mapped, run `reposurgeon` to create
`stepmod-git`.

[source,sh]
----
$ # assume that stepmod-rsync is the rsync copy
$ cd stepmod
$ ln -s ../stepmod-rsync/stepmod stepmod-mirror
$ make
----

The converted Git repo will be available at `stepmod/stepmod-git`.

=== Upload the new Git repo

[source,sh]
----
$ cd stepmod/stepmod-git
$ git remote add origin git@github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs
$ git push --all
$ git push --tags
----

Commit message:

Use GH secrets to store username/hostnames

README.adoc, after:

= ISO 10303 STEPmod CVS import to Git

image:https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-migration/actions/workflows/import.yml/badge.svg["import", link="https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-migration/actions/workflows/import.yml"]

== Purpose

This repository contains a workflow that imports the ISO 10303
STEPmod CVS repository at Boost to the
https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs[iso-10303-stepmod-cvs]
Git repository.


== Details

There are two repos involved here:

* Repo with import workflow: https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-migration
* Repo to hold converted git repo: https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs

Under `.github/` you will see the `import.yml` workflow.

The workflow depends on these two tools:

. https://gitlab.com/esr/reposurgeon[`reposurgeon`];
. https://gitlab.com/esr/cvs-fast-export[`cvs-fast-export`]

The workflow goes:

. Use `rsync` to retrieve the CVS repository hosted at Boost via `ssh`;

. Run `reposurgeon` with the provided configuration to convert the whole
  repository history into Git;

. Push all Git tags and branches to the
  https://github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs["converted" GitHub repo],
  using the `metanorma-ci` GitHub user.

NOTE: The Boost Conseil CVS is located at `cvs.boost-lab.net`.


== Frequency

This workflow is to be run once a day to import latest changes from Boost CVS.


== Usage

=== Import strategy

Cloning a remote CVS repository while importing is super slow,
especially for a large repository like STEPmod.

We have tested and settled on these steps:

. Maintain a local `rsync` copy of the CVS repository.

. Resolve all names from the CVS repository (CVS only stores UNIX usernames, in
Git are names and emails) with a `reposurgeon` user map.

. Run `reposurgeon` which depends on `cvs-fast-import` to import the CVS
repository into the `iso-10303-stepmod-cvs` Git repo.


=== Creating the `rsync` clone of the CVS repository

[source,sh]
----
rsync -avrPz -e ssh {{username}}@{{cvshost}}:/stepmod/ stepmod-rsync/
----

=== Install reposurgeon

See import.yml.

=== Install cvs-fast-export

`cvs-fast-export` works on Linux and macOS.
Run it on Ubuntu with the `rsync`'ed CVS directory.

Install:
[source,sh]
----
$ apt-get -y install cvs-fast-export
----

=== Getting all users for email mapping

Find all authors in the CVS repository using `make stubmap`.

[source,sh]
----
$ cd stepmod
$ make stubmap
----

Then manually edit the `stepmod.map` file to provide author information.


=== Run reposurgeon to convert

After all authors are mapped, run `reposurgeon` to create
`stepmod-git`.

[source,sh]
----
$ # assume that stepmod-rsync is the rsync copy
$ cd stepmod
$ ln -s ../stepmod-rsync/stepmod stepmod-mirror
$ make
----

The converted Git repo will be available at `stepmod/stepmod-git`.

=== Upload the converted Git repo

[source,sh]
----
$ cd stepmod/stepmod-git
$ git remote add origin git@github.com/metanorma/iso-10303-stepmod-cvs
$ git push --all
$ git push --tags
----
